README
4/29

Overview of Code:
server.py:
The computer that is running the server will execute this file. This
file creates the game board that will be shared between players and runs two
threads that listen for player moves.

board.py:
The server will contain one board object that keeps track of the state of the
game. When the server processes player moves, it will appeal to functions in
this file to determine whether the move was valid or not. The board contains
objects of the piece class to represent the individual pieces on the board.

piece.py:
This file defines the piece class, which is a superclass to represent
each piece on the board. This class contains each piece's cooldown-related
information.
Each of the following files is a subclass of the piece class, and
includes piece-specific functionality related to the validity of that piece's
movements.
    -bishop.py
    -king.py
    -knight.py
    -pawn.py
    -queen.py
    -rook.py

player.py:
Each computer that a player is using will execute this file. This file handles
the player thread that accepts user input, the loop that listens for board
updates from the server, and contains draw functions that utilize Pygame
functionality to display the GUI for each player.

network.py:
This file provides functionality to create a socket network that a player will
use to communicate with the server. Each player object will have an instance of
the network class.

imgs:
folder containing the PNG images for all white and black pieces as well as the
cooldown images for each type of piece. 


Instructions for Use:


Dependencies:
Python 3.10 or later (check using 'python --version')
Pygame (install using 'pip install pygame')

1. cd into the project directory; NOT imgs or pieces
	
2. Start the server: 
    In a terminal enter the following command: 
        python3 server.py

    Enter your computer's IPV4 address after the prompt "Enter your IPv4:"
            
    To get your computer's IPV4 address:
    Windows: open the command prompt and enter "ipconfig".

    Mac: open the terminal and enter "ipconfig getifaddr en0"

    After the IPV4 address is entered the terminal will print the following: 
        "Waiting for a connection"

    Nothing more needs to be done with the server. 

3. For each player to join:
    In a terminal enter the following command: 
        python3 player.py

    Enter the SAME IPV4 address as the server after the prompt: 
        "Enter the server's IPv4:"
            
    The terminal will wait for the other player to connect before displaying the
    chess window. 
    
    Note: Players should be on separate devices, but player and server can be 
    run on the same device. All devices should be on the same network.
    
    Note: Both players should have all code locally

4. To start the game:
    Once both players have joined the server the window displaying the chess 
    board will appear for both players.

    To start the game, each player has to click "Start". 

    Once the first player clicks start, the game will wait for the 2nd player to
    also click start before starting the game. 

    Once the 2nd player has joined a countdown will begin! After the screen 
    displays "Go!" both players can start making moves. 

5. Rules
    No turn order:

        Both players can move whenever they want, as often as they want. 
        They do not need to wait for the other player to make a move. 
    
    Piece cooldowns:
        After a piece has been moved successfully the piece will turn red.
        The piece is now in cooldown, meaning it cannot be moved again until 
        after 3 seconds have passed and the piece is no longer red. 

    Capturing the King wins the game. 
    
    There is no checking. The game only ends once one of the player's Kings are
    captured. 

    No en passant

    There IS castling and pawn promotion 

6. Controls: How to move pieces
    To move a piece: Click and Drag
    Click on your color piece. If the click is valid then the square behind the
    piece should turn light blue. 

    Drag the piece to an empty square or a square with an opposing piece 
    according to the rules of chess. 

    If the move is valid, the piece will move to that square and the square 
    behind the piece will turn dark blue.

7. Starting a new game
    Once a player has captured a king the game ends and the server and players
    will be disconnected. To start another game, start again from step 1.

8. Enjoy!

